# Lesson 1 - AI Transformation Across Industries

0:06
Welcome to the introduction to the AI Infrastructure and Operations Fundamentals course. This is the first unit in the AI Infrastructure and Operations fundamentals course. We hope your learning proves valuable in real-life scenarios, sparks curiosity, and helps gain a more thorough understanding in your AI journey. Let's get started with an outline of this unit.
Play video starting at ::29 and follow transcript0:29
In the first unit, we're going to put the spotlight on a few selected industries and learn how they utilize AI in their own unique way. We will cover AI in healthcare, AI in financial services, and AI in autonomous vehicles.
Play video starting at ::48 and follow transcript0:48
By the end of this unit, you'll be able to list examples of the impact of AI across different industries, describe how AI is revolutionizing drug discovery and medical devices, articulate examples of how AI is transforming industries in the financial sector, illustrate how automakers are using AI from design to self-driving cars. Let's get started.
Play video starting at :1:23 and follow transcript1:23
I am a translator,
Play video starting at :1:29 and follow transcript1:29
transforming text into creative discovery,
Play video starting at :1:39 and follow transcript1:39
movement into animation,
Play video starting at :1:44 and follow transcript1:44
and direction into action.
Play video starting at :1:51 and follow transcript1:51
I am a healer, exploring the building blocks that make us unique,
Play video starting at :2:2 and follow transcript2:02
modeling new threats before they happen,
Play video starting at :2:11 and follow transcript2:11
and searching for the cures to keep them at bay.
Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18
I am a visionary, generating new medical miracles,
Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30
and giving us a new perspective on our sun to keep us safe here on Earth.
Play video starting at :2:39 and follow transcript2:39
I am a navigator, discovering a unique moment in a sea of content. We're announcing the next generation. And the perfect setting for any story.
Play video starting at :2:58 and follow transcript2:58
I am a creator, building 3D experiences from snapshots,
Play video starting at :3:9 and follow transcript3:09
and adding new levels of reality to our virtual selves.
Play video starting at :3:16 and follow transcript3:16
I am a helper, bringing brainstorms to life.
Play video starting at :3:29 and follow transcript3:29
You can view it from different angles. Sharing the wisdom of a million programmers.
Play video starting at :3:38 and follow transcript3:38
Turning ideas into virtual worlds. Build northern forest.
Play video starting at :3:47 and follow transcript3:47
I even helped write the script,
Play video starting at :3:55 and follow transcript3:55
breathe life into the words, and compose the melody.
Play video starting at :4:9 and follow transcript4:09
I am AI, brought to life by NVIDIA, deep learning, and brilliant minds everywhere. A quote from Jensen Huang, the CEO of NVIDIA: "We are leveraging the capabilities of AI to perform intuitive tasks on a scale that is quite hard to imagine, and no industry can afford to or wants to miss out on the huge advantages that predictive analytics offers." AI has the transformative potential to infuse every industry due to its capacity to enhance efficiency, decision-making, and innovation. By leveraging advanced algorithms, machine learning, and data analytics, AI can streamline processes, automate tasks, and uncover valuable insights from vast data sets. To name a few examples, in call centers, AI can advance and accelerate many applications such as AI virtual agents, inside extraction, and sentiment analysis. In retail, AI can be used to provide insights for store analytics, such as store traffic trends, counts of customers with shopping baskets, aisle occupancy, and more. In manufacturing, AI can help design products, optimize production, improve quality control, reduce waste, and increase safety. AI has seamlessly woven itself into the fabric of our daily lives, leaving an indelible impact on how we work, communicate, and navigate the world. Many familiar technologies found in our day-to-day lives are powered by AI, and many more are being added to an ever-evolving landscape of possibilities. The computer industry is currently undergoing transformative shifts that are reshaping the technological landscape. One notable trend is the explosion of generative AI, which is pushing the boundaries of artificial intelligence applications. Generative AI models are demonstrating unprecedented capabilities in natural language processing, content creation, and problem-solving, integrating diverse data sources to create rich and contextually relevant outputs across various sensory modalities, such as text, images, and sound. We'll discuss generative AI in greater detail in the third unit of this course. For now, let's shift our focus to our first industry: the healthcare sector. Let's see some real-world examples of AI in healthcare.
Play video starting at :6:43 and follow transcript6:43
The drug discovery process has traditionally been expensive, long, and laborious. It is a 1.2 trillion dollar industry with approximately $2 billion dollar research and development investment per drug. These drugs normally go through more than ten years of development and have a 90% failure rate. By providing rich and diverse data sets that can be leveraged to train and validate AI models, AI is revolutionizing drug discovery by significantly impacting various stages of the drug development process. Digital biology can be used to identify new drug targets, predict the efficacy and toxicity of drug candidates, and optimize the design of new drugs. By using computational methods to model the interactions between drugs and biological systems, researchers can accelerate the drug discovery process and reduce the costs associated with traditional drug development. Lab automation, which is generating vast amounts of data in drug discovery, and the ability to process and analyze this data is becoming increasingly important for drug development. Advanced data analytics and machine learning techniques are being developed to help make sense of this data and accelerate the drug discovery process. AI and computing are revolutionizing drug discovery by enabling researchers to analyze and understand large amounts of data, develop more accurate models, and identify promising new drug candidates more quickly and efficiently.
Play video starting at :8:13 and follow transcript8:13
Medical devices are going through a revolution right now, where sensor information is augmented with software, advanced computing, and AI to do amazing things. Nowadays, medical devices can utilize continuous sensing, computation, and AI to detect, measure, predict, and guide high-risk precision medical operations. This evolution suggests that the healthcare sector is heading towards a more robotic approach, augmenting clinical care teams to meet demand, maximize efficiency, and enhance access to care.
Play video starting at :8:47 and follow transcript8:47
Invenio Imaging is a medical device company, developing technology that enables surgeons to evaluate tissue biopsies in the operating room immediately after samples are collected, providing in just three minutes AI-accelerated insights that would otherwise take weeks to obtain from a pathology lab. Invenio uses a cluster of NVIDIA RTX GPUs to train AI neural networks with tens of millions of parameters on pathologist-annotated images. These models are layered on top of images, providing real-time image analysis, and allowing physicians to quickly determine what kinds of cancer cells are present in a biopsy image. With the ability to analyze different molecular subtypes of cancer within a tissue sample, doctors can predict how well a patient will respond to chemotherapy or determine whether a tumor has been successfully removed during surgery.
Play video starting at :9:41 and follow transcript9:41
Next, we'll talk about how AI affects financial services. One of AI's incredible breakthroughs is the ability to identify patterns hidden in vast amounts of data at levels of precision, speed, and scale that were previously impossible to reach. This ability brings multiple benefits to the financial services industry from enabling more intelligent trading to expanding credit and services to underserved people.
Play video starting at :10:12 and follow transcript10:12
Let's view a couple of different examples of how large financial institutions are leveraging AI to reduce fraud and improve customer experience. Our first example is the Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, a leading global investment bank, is working with NVIDIA to accelerate the use of AI and machine learning on transformational AI applications. With NVIDIA's Omniverse platform and open computing platform for building and operating metaverse applications, Deutsche Bank is exploring how to engage with employees and customers more interactively, improving experiences using 3D virtual avatars to help employees navigate internal systems and respond to HR-related questions. Deutsche Bank and NVIDIA are testing a collection of large language models targeted at financial data called Financial Transformers or Finformers. These systems will achieve outcomes, such as early warning signs on the counterparty of a financial transaction, faster data retrieval, and identifying data quality issues. The second example is American Express. Credit and bank cards are a major target for fraud. To thwart fraudulent activity, American Express, which handles more than 8 billion transactions a year, leverages deep learning through the NVIDIA GPU computing platform. Using advanced AI models to detect anomalous patterns and transactions, American Express implemented an enhanced real-time fraud detection system to improve accuracy and better protect its customers and merchants, while operating within a tight two-millisecond latency requirement. Let's move on to our final sector. Let's learn how AI is being used in autonomous vehicles. The impact of artificial intelligence in the automotive industry has been transformative, revolutionizing the way vehicles are designed, manufactured, and operated. Let's look at a few examples that illustrate this transformation. Design visualization. Photo realistic rendering empowers designers to take advantage of immersive, real-time, physically accurate visualization.
Play video starting at :12:20 and follow transcript12:20
Engineering simulation. Engineers and simulation experts can rapidly analyze and solve complex problems with GPU-accelerated hardware and software tools. Industrial digital twin. With NVIDIA Omniverse Enterprise, automakers can quickly develop and operate complex AI-enabled digital twins, maximize productivity, and help maintain faultless operation. Virtual showrooms and car configurators. As the buying experience migrates from physical retail spaces to online, dealerships can offer photo real interactive content for personal experiences. Intelligent assistance. With conversational AI, natural language understanding, and recommendation engines, intelligent in-vehicle services can act as every passenger's digital assistant. Autonomous driving and parking. Autonomous vehicles are transforming the way we live, work, and play, creating safer and more efficient roads. These revolutionary benefits require massive computational horsepower and large-scale production software expertise. Tapping into decades-long experience in high-performance computing, imaging, and AI, NVIDIA has built a software-defined, end-to-end platform for the transportation industry that enables continuous improvement and deployment through over-the-air updates.
Play video starting at :14:2 and follow transcript14:02
Welcome, Daniel. I see a text from Hubert asking, "Can you pick me up from the San Jose Civic?" Should I take you there? Yes, please. Okay, taking you to San Jose Civic. Start drive pilot. Okay, starting drive pilot.
Play video starting at :14:25 and follow transcript14:25
Can you let Hubert know we're on our way? Sure, I'll send him a text.
Play video starting at :15: and follow transcript15:00
I see Hubert.
Play video starting at :15:6 and follow transcript15:06
Can you please take me to Rivermark Hotel? Okay, taking you to Rivermark Hotel. Thanks for picking me up. Definitely. Start drive pilot. Okay, starting drive pilot.
Play video starting at :15:22 and follow transcript15:22
What building is that there? That building is San Jose Center for the Performing Arts. What shows are playing there? CATS is playing tonight. Can you give me two tickets for Saturday night? Yes, I can.
Play video starting at :16: and follow transcript16:00
You have arrived at your destination. Please park the vehicle. Okay, finding a parking spot.
Play video starting at :16:33 and follow transcript16:33
Vehicle production is a colossal undertaking, requiring thousands of parts and workers moving in harmony. Any supply chain or production issues can lead to costly delays. Additionally, when automakers roll out a new model, they must reconfigure the layout of production plans to account for the new vehicle design. This process can take significant portions of the factory offline, posing manufacturing for existing vehicles. Mercedes-Benz is digitizing its production process using the NVIDIA Omniverse platform to design and plan manufacturing and assembly facilities. NVIDIA Omniverse is an open 3D development platform enabling enterprises and institutions across all industries to build and operate digital twins for industrial and scientific use cases. By tapping into NVIDIA AI and metaverse technologies, the automaker can create feedback loops to reduce waste, decrease energy consumption, and continuously enhance quality.
Play video starting at :17:37 and follow transcript17:37
NVIDIA Omniverse is a scalable end-to-end platform enabling all industries to build and operate digital twins for scientific research, infrastructure, product design, architecture, and more. Now, Mercedes-Benz is using Omniverse to optimize new production and assembly facilities. Building a car requires thousands of parts and workers all moving in harmony. Using digital twins created in Omniverse, an assembly line for a new model can be reconfigured in simulation without interrupting current production. Production planners can synchronize plants around the world, enabling over-the-air software updates to manufacturing equipment, streamlining operations while improving quality and efficiency. Mercedes-Benz is preparing to manufacture its new EV platform at its plant in Rastatt, Germany. Operations experts are simulating new production processes in Omniverse, which can be used alongside existing vehicle production. This virtual workflow also allows the automaker to quickly react to supply chain disruptions, reconfiguring the assembly line as needed. Using NVIDIA AI and Omniverse, Mercedes-Benz is building intelligent, sustainable factories that improve efficiency, reduce waste, and continually enhance vehicle quality.
Play video starting at :19: and follow transcript19:00
AI is powering change in every industry. From speech recognition and recommenders to medical imaging and improved supply chain management, AI is providing enterprises, the compute power, tools, and algorithms their teams need to do their life's work. From the cloud to the office to the data center to the edge, AI-powered solutions revolutionize enterprise operations by enhancing efficiency, automating complex tasks, optimizing decision-making processes, and unlocking valuable insights from vast data sets. In the following units of this course, you'll learn about the components of an end-to-end AI-accelerated computing platform, from hardware to software, forming the blueprint to a robust, secure infrastructure that supports develop to deploy implementations across all modern workloads. Thank you for your time and attention. We'll see you in the next unit, where we'll go over a thorough introduction to artificial intelligence.