# Lesson 12.1 - AI in the Cloud Unit Overview

0:07
Welcome to Unit 12-1, AI in the Cloud Unit overview. As AI expands its reach, and Cloud computing becomes the go to platform for running AI workloads, this unit delves into the various sub units that comprise AI in the Cloud. Here we'll outline the structure of the unit and define the learning objectives. Let's get started. Let's examine what's in store for this unit. Introduction to AI in the Cloud covers the challenges, benefits, and unification of these two groundbreaking technologies. AI use cases in the Cloud details the wide variety of AI use cases that can be deployed in the Cloud. Considerations when deploying AI in the Cloud, the supported cloud service providers in the various ways to consume their services, finally the invidious solutions that run in the Cloud. Now that we've covered this unit's foundation, let's explore the learning objectives. Upon completing this unit, you'll be able to explain the multitude of ways Cloud Computing enhances AI deployments. Describe the wide variety of AI use cases in Cloud Computing environment. Outline the key considerations and strategies when deploying AI in the Cloud. Summarize the wide variety of Cloud service providers that support NVIDIA technologies and solutions. Categorize the various Cloud consumption models when deciding how to consume Cloud services. Evaluate NVIDIA's Cloud solutions and how they can benefit your workloads. Let's begin with a powerful quote from NVIDIA CEO Jensen Hong, as we explore the exciting possibilities of AI in the Cloud and how it's transforming the way we live, work, and play. AI in the Cloud is the future of computing. It's the next generation of computing, and it's going to transform every industry. This quote from Jensen Hong, the CEO of NVIDIA, highlights the potential impact of AI in the Cloud for various industries and the future of computing as a whole. It's an impact statement that reflects the growing importance of AI and Cloud computing in the technology landscape. Let's begin our journey into the Cloud with Unit 12-2, introduction to AI in the Cloud.